>> Jen Kramer: Now let's talk a little
bit further about domain names,
because there's a lot to know about
domain names, choosing the right one for
your website and getting these
connected to your web hosting.
So as I mentioned before,
a domain name looks something like this,
www.frontendmasters.com.
Sometimes you'll see an http:// or
an https:// put in front
of these domain names.
Remember that designates the protocol.
The actual domain name is this whole
thing here www.frontendmasters.com.
So lets focus on that last
part of the domain name first.
That is called the top level domain,
in this case it's .com but
there's a whole lot of
choices out there for these.
For example, the ones we started
the internet with are pretty much .com,
.net, .org, .gov, and
.edu, and probably .mil.
So .com originally meant a commercial or
a website that had
a commercial nature to it.
.net was for networks in other
words internet service providers,
and .org was for nonprofits.
Those guidelines have pretty much gone out
the window, anybody uses whatever they
want, wherever they want,
at whatever point in time they want.
But historically,
that's where the roots of this were.
There are two that are still
very strictly regulated.
This is .gov, that stands for
the US federal government only,
not the state government or anything.
Just the federal government in
the United States uses .gov.
.edu is very strictly for
higher education in the United States.
There are very strict guidelines
about getting a .edu address as well.
.mil is used by the US military,
and that is it.
Now after those three,
the .gov, .edu and .mil,
it's pretty much anything goes for
everybody else.
There are a whole bunch of country codes
that are associated with some of this.
And I just listed a few here France,
Spain, the United Kingdom,
Australia, Germany,
Japan or the United States.
These country codes were available but
even these have been somewhat of used for
example.tv is a country code for
the tiny island of Tuvalu.
Out in the Pacific Ocean about 10,000
people at risk of climate change,
actually, and rising sea levels.
They went and sold their .tv domain name
to a company that sells it to TV shows,
so you can do whatever you
want with these country codes.
>> Jen Kramer: In general as you start
to think about a domain name for
a website that you might like to build.
Here are some things that are really
pretty important to keep in mind.
So first of all,
make sure it's easy to spell.
People are terrible spellers.
If you're gonna have some weird
combination of letters in there that
people could get confused by, that may
not be the best choice for a domain name.
It shouldn't be too long,
it should be easy to say over the phone.
That's one I really strongly recommend.
My first business was Focused Consulting
F-O-C-U-S-E-D Consulting.com.
That's gets really old
saying that all the time.
So think very carefully about
a good domain name that you can
simply say like FrontendMasters.com.
People should have a pretty
easy time spelling that.
It's easy to remember.
If you want people to be able to remember
your domain name and visit you regularly,
I would recommend avoiding hyphens and
numbers in your domain name.
It's because if you go with another
great one that I had 4 Web Inc.
That's the number 4webinc.com.
You have to make sure that you're
specifying the actual number
as opposed to spelling out the number.
And then make sure that you avoid
copyright and trademark issues.
So this was something that
happened a whole lot more towards
the beginning of
the commercialization of the web.
For example we had somebody who had
bought a Julia Roberts domain name who
was building a fan site on it and Julia
Roberts sued to get the domain name back.
We had somebody with the last name
of McDonalds who happened to buy
McDonalds.com and
of course the big burger people went and
sued them to get the domain name back.
So if you infringe on someone's
copyright or trademark,
then you may wind up facing a lawsuit.
So make sure whatever domain name
you pick is really truly your own.
So you might be wondering now well
what on Earth should I be registering?
Well I recommend you
start with your own name.
Having your own name is a great thing,
you can do anything with it
because it's all about you.
You can always register those
domain names and not use them.
Many of us who have been
in web development for
a long time have a huge pile of domain
names that we never use and may never use,
but we have great plans for them.
I think all of us are in that boat.
You can also have more than one
name point to the same website.
So for example, I own JenKramer.com,
.net, .org, .biz, and that rocks.
And so my website is the .org website but
I do have the .com point to it
also because you never know.
And it was nice to buy all of those names.
I bought them years and years ago, now I
don't get confused with Jane Cramer or
the magician or Jane Cramer who ran for
a position in city government in Chicago.
If you're wondering how to
pick a good domain name,
there are lot of services out
there that will help you.
Name Boy has been around for
a really long time.
On this particular website, you can enter
a primary word and a secondary word,
whatever the words are that you'd
like to have in your domain name.
And then click the Go Name Boy Go button,
it'll go ahead and
do a search for
a whole bunch of combinations.
And very nicely, it'll also do a quick
check to see if those names are available
for you to purchase.
You can actually purchase them
through Name Boy, if you want.
[COUGH] You're gonna purchase your domain
names through a domain name registrar.
There are a ton of places to purchase
domain names out there on the Internet.
And one of the simplest ways to purchase
a domain name is to go to your web host as
you're signing up for web hosting.
You can usually just register
a domain name right there.
And all of the magic to connect domain
names with web hosting will happen for
you automatically, it's a beautiful thing.
If you don't wanna register a domain
name with your web hosting,
if you'd rather keep those as
separate entities as many people do,
you can go to a different domain name
registrar and register your name there.
Personally for ease of keeping track of
all of your names I strongly recommend you
pick one registrar and stick with him.
I use namecheap, there are a lot of other
places out there Namecheap as their
name implies kind of cheap kind of
cheerful no frills just gets the job done.
And, it's not terribly expensive to do so.
Connecting your name to the hosting.
Now if you wind up purchasing your
domain name someplace like Namecheap and
you have your web hosting,
some place like SiteGround.
You're gonna have to make these
two things talk to each other.
So that the domain name when we type in
say frontendmasters.com, we know that
we're going to the web hosting where
they're located with the right IP address.
The way that connection is made is through
something called DNS which stands for
the domain name system.
So it's the way we just translate
a name to an IP address.
These DNS settings are provided
by the hosting company.
The hosting company will give them to
you that will say here's a couple of DNS
entries.
You'll go over to wherever you
registered your domain name and
there will be a spot to
put in the DNS entries.
You just copy and paste them over.
And then you're gonna need to wait,
typically 24-48 hours,
sometimes a little bit longer.
And then, when you type in your domain
name, you'll get your web hosting.
Why does it take so long?
Well, we have to update
the whole internet.
The internet is a very
diffused sort of place.
There are a lot of places that are storing
where names and IP addresses go together.
We basically have to update
the entire internet.
So that they all know when you
wanna go to frontendmasters.com,
you go to this particular IP
address at this particular webhost.
If you're curious about
how this DNS stuff works,
there's a great article
at howstuffworks.com and
there's the URL for that if you wanna
read a little bit more about it.